Question 5.1.5. Question 5. Concept of a Function.
Suppose g(x) equals 2x plus 3 over x-4.
Evaluate g(2)
Substitute x equals 2 into g(x) equals 2x plus 3 over x-4.
g(2) equals 2(2) plus 3 over 2-4 equals 7
over negative 2 equals negative 7 over 2
g(2) equals negative 7 over 2 equals negative 3.5
Evaluate g(0)
Substitute x equals 0.
g(0) equals 2(0) plus 3 over 0-4 equals 3
over negative 4 equals negative 3 over 4
g(0) equals negative 3 over 4 equals negative 0.75
Find x such that g(x) equals negative 3
Set g(x) equals negative 3 and solve for x.
2x plus 3 over x-4 equals negative 3
Multiply both sides by (x-4): 2x plus 3 equals negative 3(x - 4)
2x plus 3 equals negative 3x plus 12
5x equals 9
x equals 9 over 5 equals 1.8
Check: x equals 1.8 not equal to 4. so denominator is not zero. Valid!
IB exam tip: When solving rational equations. always
verify your answer doesn't make the denominator zero.
If it does. the solution is extraneous.